---
layout: post
title: Research Projects
categories: research
permalink: research/
---

<span style="color: #f2cf4a; font-size: .9em;">[\[Back home\]]({{ site.url }}/)</span>

# Projects on Environmental Economics

### Does Energy Efficiency Affect Demand: An Empirical Study on the Energy Paradox Within Automobile Industry

[\[PDF\]](https://scaotravis.github.io/downloads/cao_fuel_economy.pdf)

This paper studies “the energy paradox” within automotive market, where the slow adoption of vehicles with better fuel economy is observed. We obtained survey data from California Energy Commission, used random coefficient logit model developed by Berry, Levinsohn, and Pakes (1995) to perform market demand estimation, and created an empirical willingness to pay (WTP) distribution for an additional miles per gallon (mpg) to investigate consumer valuation on fuel economy. Our result shows that only about 30% of the distribution has WTP more than $600 (which is calculated as a reasonable cutoff for one more mpg). With the majority unwilling to pay for an extra mpg, this suggests that consumers undervalue fuel economy at the market level, illustrating the paradox.

<hr style="height:2pt; visibility:hidden;" />

---

### Uncertainty in Lightbulb Failing: A Study on the Energy Paradox Within the U.S. Residential Lighting Market

[\[PDF\]](https://scaotravis.github.io/downloads/cao_lightbulb.pdf)

“The energy paradox”, which describes the rather slow adoption of energy-efficient products despite their savings potential, has been observed in the U.S. residential lighting market for LED products. With LED sales fall short of traditional incandescent bulbs, this paper looks at how uncertainty, specifically regarding lightbulb’s probability of failing, could explain the paradox. We deploy a discrete choice model to replicate consumer’s decision making, and then use Monte Carlo simulation to find income level of the consumer who is indifferent between buying incandescentand LED. With the presence of lightbulb failinguncertainty, we found that consumers who discount future by a little (with discount factor around 0.9) already prefer incandescent over LED for majority of times, resulting in the paradox.Predictions are made for average U.S. consumer’s purchasing behavior, and future studies are suggested to validify our theoretical framework.
